CronJob topics improvement (#38312)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs.md

A _CronJob_ creates {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="job" text="Jobs" >}} on a repeating schedule.

> CronJob is meant for performing regular scheduled actions such as backups, report generation, and so on. One CronJob object is like one line of a _crontab_ (cron table) file on a Unix system. It runs a job periodically on a given schedule, written in [Cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) format.

Reviewer: Please wrap long lines for ease of change tracking. Wrapping long lines are helpful for downstream localization teams as well.

([Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob](/docs/tasks/job/automated-tasks-with-cron-jobs/)
takes you through this example in more detail).

> ## Writing a CronJob spec
> ### Schedule

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Details of the CronJob API

### Schedule syntax
```

| @daily (or @midnight)			| Run once a day at midnight																	| 0 0 * * * 		|
| @hourly 									| Run once an hour at the beginning of the hour								| 0 * * * * 		|

{{< caution >}}
All **CronJob** `schedule:` times are based on the timezone of the
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-controller-manager" text="kube-controller-manager" >}}.

If your control plane runs the kube-controller-manager in Pods or bare
containers, the timezone set for the kube-controller-manager container determines the timezone
that the CronJob controller uses.

> {{< /caution >}}

Reviewer: This is an important piece of information. Why drop it?

| @daily (or @midnight)			| Run once a day at midnight																	| 0 0 * * * 		|
| @hourly 									| Run once an hour at the beginning of the hour								| 0 * * * * 		|

To generate CronJob schedule expressions, you can also use web tools like [crontab.guru](https://crontab.guru/).

### Job Template

The `.spec.jobTemplate` is the template for the job, and it is required.
It has exactly the same schema as a [Job](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/), except that
it is nested and does not have an `apiVersion` or `kind`.

> For information about writing a job `.spec`, see [Writing a Job Spec](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#writing-a-job-spec).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify common metadata for the templated Jobs, such as
{{< glossary_tooltip text="labels" term_id="label" >}} or
{{< glossary_tooltip text="annotations" term_id="annotation" >}}.
For information about writing a Job `.spec`, see [Writing a Job Spec](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#writing-a-job-spec).
```

If the `.spec.startingDeadlineSeconds` field is set (not null), the CronJob
controller measures the time between when a job is expected to be created and
now. If the difference is higher than that limit, it will skip this execution.

For example, if it is set to `200`, it allows a job to be created for up to 200
seconds after the actual schedule.

### Concurrency Policy

The `.spec.concurrencyPolicy` field is also optional.
It specifies how to treat concurrent executions of a job that is created by this CronJob.
The spec may specify only one of the following concurrency policies:

* `Allow` (default): The CronJob allows concurrently running jobs
* `Forbid`: The CronJob does not allow concurrent runs; if it is time for a new job run and the
  previous job run hasn't finished yet, the CronJob skips the new job run
* `Replace`: If it is time for a new job run and the previous job run hasn't finished yet, the
  CronJob replaces the currently running job run with a new job run

Note that concurrency policy only applies to the jobs created by the same cron job.
If there are multiple CronJobs, their respective jobs are always allowed to run concurrently.

> ### Suspend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Schedule suspension
```

> The `.spec.suspend` field is also optional.
> If it is set to `true`, all subsequent executions are suspended.
> This setting does not apply to already started executions.
> Defaults to false.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can defer execution of Jobs for a CronJob, by setting the optional `.spec.suspend` field
to true. The field defaults to false.

This setting does _not_ affect Jobs that the CronJob has already started.

If you do set that field to true, all subsequent executions are suspended (they remain
scheduled, but the CronJob controller does not start the Jobs to run the tasks) until
you unsuspend the CronJob.
```

{{< caution >}}
Executions that are suspended during their scheduled time count as missed jobs.
When `.spec.suspend` changes from `true` to `false` on an existing CronJob without a
[starting deadline](#starting-deadline), the missed jobs are scheduled immediately.
{{< /caution >}}

> ### Jobs History Limits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Job history limits
```

When you have the feature enabled, you can set `.spec.timeZone` to the name of a valid [time zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones). For example, setting
`.spec.timeZone: "Etc/UTC"` instructs Kubernetes to interpret the schedule relative to Coordinated Universal Time.

{{< caution >}}

> Historically you may find the `.spec.schedule` field can be set with a timezone like `CRON_TZ=UTC * * * * *` or `TZ=UTC * * * * *`. This way is not recommended any more and you should consider use the `.spec.timeZone` field as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically you may set the `.spec.schedule` field to a timezone like `CRON_TZ=UTC * * * * *` or
`TZ=UTC * * * * *`. This way is not recommended any more and you should consider use the
`.spec.timeZone` field as described above.
```

{{< /caution >}}

A time zone database from the Go standard library is included in the binaries and used as a fallback in case an external database is not available on the system.

## CronJob limitations {#cron-job-limitations}

### Name limitations

> When creating the manifest for a CronJob resource, make sure the name you provide is a valid DNS subdomain name. The name must be no longer than 52 characters. This is because the CronJob controller will automatically append 11 characters to the job name provided and there is a constraint that the maximum length of a Job name is no more than 63 characters.

Reviewer: This is not an limitation. I don't agree to this refactoring.

Author: Then I'll leave it at the beginning of the article.

### Modifying a CronJob
If you modify a CronJob, the changes you make will apply to new jobs that start to run after your modification
is complete. Jobs (and their Pods) that have already started continue to run without changes.
That is, the CronJob does _not_ update existing jobs, even if those remain running.

> ### How a CronJob schedules

Reviewer: This subsection title is not a limitation, although the text reads like a limitation.

Author: How about change the title to "Job creation"?

Kubernetes that does not have experimental time zone support, all CronJobs in your cluster have an unspecified
timezone).

When you have the feature enabled, you can set `.spec.timeZone` to the name of a valid [time zone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones). For example, setting
`.spec.timeZone: "Etc/UTC"` instructs Kubernetes to interpret the schedule relative to Coordinated Universal Time.

{{< caution >}}

> Historically you may set the `.spec.schedule` field to a timezone like `CRON_TZ=UTC * * * * *` or

Reviewer 3: This was never supported, so it should not be said as historically, but rather explicitly call it out as unsupported extension. Using is will give you warnings coming from the server whenever working with such a cronjob. Additionally, you can't use this unsupported with `.spec.timeZone`. 
I'd like to make this very explicit!

Reviewer 3: Both `CRON_TZ` and just `TZ` do(see [create](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/bc61d70055023607f5adca83a624a976a235ff7b/pkg/registry/batch/cronjob/strategy.go#L135) and [update](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/bc61d70055023607f5adca83a624a976a235ff7b/pkg/registry/batch/cronjob/strategy.go#L171)), since that was not the official way, but rather it was an internal thing that started being supported by the library we use for parsing cron (after one of the upgrades). That's why it's important to make that distinction clear in the docs as well. I don't want to confuse users :cold_sweat: but rather suggest them to use supported paths.

> Historically you may set the `.spec.schedule` field to a timezone like `CRON_TZ=UTC * * * * *` or
> `TZ=UTC * * * * *`. This way is not recommended any more and you should consider use the
> `.spec.timeZone` field as described above.

Reviewer 2: Is this right?
```suggestion
The implementation of the CronJob API in Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}} lets you set
the `.spec.schedule` field to include a timezone; for example: `CRON_TZ=UTC * * * * *`
or `TZ=UTC * * * * *`.

Specifying a timezone that way is **not officially supported** (and never has been).

If you try to set a schedule that includes `TZ` or `CRON_TZ` timezone specification,
Kubernetes reports a [warning](/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/) to the client.
Future versions of Kubernetes might not implement that unofficial timezone mechanism at all.
```

{{< /caution >}}

A time zone database from the Go standard library is included in the binaries and used as a fallback in case an external database is not available on the system.

## CronJob limitations {#cron-job-limitations}

### Modifying a CronJob

> If you modify a CronJob, the changes you make will apply to new jobs that start to run after your modification
> is complete. Jobs (and their Pods) that have already started continue to run without changes.
> That is, the CronJob does _not_ update existing jobs, even if those remain running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By design, a CronJob contains a template for _new_ Jobs.
If you modify an existing CronJob, the changes you make will apply to new Jobs that
start to run after your modification is complete. Jobs (and their Pods) that have already
started continue to run without changes.
That is, the CronJob does _not_ update existing Jobs, even if those remain running.
```

### Job creation

> A CronJob creates a job object _about_ once per execution time of its schedule. We say "about" because there

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A CronJob creates a Job object approximately once per execution time of its schedule. The
scheduling is approximate
```

> are certain circumstances where two jobs might be created, or no job might be created. We attempt to make these rare,
> but do not completely prevent them. Therefore, jobs should be _idempotent_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are certain circumstances where two Jobs might be created, or no Job might be created.
Kubernetes tries to avoid those situations, but do not completely prevent them. Therefore,
the Jobs that you define should be _idempotent_.
```

The CronJob is only responsible for creating Jobs that match its schedule, and
the Job in turn is responsible for the management of the Pods it represents.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

* Learn about [Pods](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/) and
  [Jobs](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/), two concepts
  that CronJobs rely upon.
* Read about the detailed [format](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/robfig/cron/v3#hdr-CRON_Expression_Format)
  of CronJob `.spec.schedule` fields.
* For instructions on creating and working with CronJobs, and for an example
  of a CronJob manifest,
  see [Running automated tasks with CronJobs](/docs/tasks/job/automated-tasks-with-cron-jobs/).
* `CronJob` is part of the Kubernetes REST API.
  Read the {{< api-reference page="workload-resources/cron-job-v1" >}}

>   reference doc for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  API reference for more details.
```
